doc/plugins/batch-requests.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# [Chinese](batch-requests-cn.md)

# Summary

- [**Description**](#Description)
- [**Attributes**](#Attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-Enable)
- [**Batch Api Request/Response**](#batch-api-request/response)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Description

`batch-requests` can accept mutiple request and send them from `apisix` via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining),and return a aggregated response to client,this can significantly improve performance when the client needs to access multiple APIs.

## Attributes

None

## How To Enable

Default enbaled

## Batch Api Request/Response
The plugin will create a api in `apisix` to handle your aggregation request.

### Batch Api Request:

| ParameterName | Type | Optional | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| query | Object | Yes | | Specify `QueryString` for all request |
| headers | Object | Yes | | Specify `Header` for all request |
| timeout | Number | Yes | 3000 | Aggregate Api timeout in `ms` |
| pipeline | [HttpRequest](#Request) | No | | Request's detail |

#### HttpRequest
| ParameterName | Type | Optional | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| version | Enum | Yes | 1.1 | http version: `1.0` or `1.1` |
| method | Enum | Yes | GET | http method, such as：`GET`. |
| query | Object | Yes | | request's `QueryString`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `query`, this setting's value will be setted.|
| headers | Object | Yes | | request's `Header`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `headers`, this setting's value will be setted.|
| path | String | No | | http request's path |
| body | String | Yes | | http request's body |

### Batch Api Response：
Response is `Array` of [HttpResponse](#HttpResponse).

#### HttpResponse
| ParameterName | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| status | Integer | http status code |
| reason | String | http reason phrase |
| body | String | http response body |
| headers | Object | http response headers |

## Test Plugin

You can pass your request detail to batch api( `/apisix/batch-requests` ), `apisix` can automatically complete requests via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining). Such as:
```shell
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/batch-requests' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--d '{
    "headers": {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        "admin-jwt":"xxxx"
    },
    "timeout": 500,
    "pipeline": [
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test"
        },
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test2"
        }
    ]
}'
```

response as below：
```json
[
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    },
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    }
]
```

## Disable Plugin

Normally, you don't need to disable this plugin.If you does need please remove it from the `plugins` section of`/conf/config.yaml`.

Commit message:

feat[batch-request]: cp all header to every request (#1697)

doc/plugins/batch-requests.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# [Chinese](batch-requests-cn.md)

# Summary

- [**Description**](#Description)
- [**Attributes**](#Attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-Enable)
- [**Batch Api Request/Response**](#batch-api-request/response)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Description

`batch-requests` can accept mutiple request and send them from `apisix` via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining),and return a aggregated response to client,this can significantly improve performance when the client needs to access multiple APIs.

> **Tips**
>
> The HTTP headers for the outer batch request, except for the Content- headers such as Content-Type, apply to every request in the batch. If you specify a given HTTP header in both the outer request and an individual call, then the individual call header's value overrides the outer batch request header's value. The headers for an individual call apply only to that call.

## Attributes

None

## How To Enable

Default enbaled

## Batch Api Request/Response
The plugin will create a api in `apisix` to handle your batch request.

### Batch Api Request:

| ParameterName | Type | Optional | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| query | Object | Yes | | Specify `QueryString` for all request |
| headers | Object | Yes | | Specify `Header` for all request |
| timeout | Number | Yes | 3000 | Aggregate Api timeout in `ms` |
| pipeline | [HttpRequest](#Request) | No | | Request's detail |

#### HttpRequest
| ParameterName | Type | Optional | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| version | Enum | Yes | 1.1 | http version: `1.0` or `1.1` |
| method | Enum | Yes | GET | http method, such as：`GET`. |
| query | Object | Yes | | request's `QueryString`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `query`, this setting's value will be setted.|
| headers | Object | Yes | | request's `Header`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `headers`, this setting's value will be setted.|
| path | String | No | | http request's path |
| body | String | Yes | | http request's body |

### Batch Api Response：
Response is `Array` of [HttpResponse](#HttpResponse).

#### HttpResponse
| ParameterName | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| status | Integer | http status code |
| reason | String | http reason phrase |
| body | String | http response body |
| headers | Object | http response headers |

## Test Plugin

You can pass your request detail to batch api( `/apisix/batch-requests` ), `apisix` can automatically complete requests via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining). Such as:
```shell
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/batch-requests' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--d '{
    "headers": {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        "admin-jwt":"xxxx"
    },
    "timeout": 500,
    "pipeline": [
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test"
        },
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test2"
        }
    ]
}'
```

response as below：
```json
[
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    },
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    }
]
```

## Disable Plugin

Normally, you don't need to disable this plugin.If you does need please remove it from the `plugins` section of`/conf/config.yaml`.
