docs/en/latest/plugins/batch-requests.md, before:

---
title: batch-requests
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Description**](#description)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**How To Configure**](#how-to-configure)
- [**Metadata**](#metadata)
- [**Batch Api Request/Response**](#batch-api-requestresponse)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Description

`batch-requests` can accept multiple request and send them from `apisix` via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining), and return an aggregated response to client, which can significantly improve performance when the client needs to access multiple APIs.

> **Tips**
>
> The HTTP headers for the outer batch request, except for the Content- headers such as Content-Type, apply to every request in the batch. If you specify a given HTTP header in both the outer request and the individual call, the header's value of individual call would override the outer batch request header's value. The headers for an individual call apply only to that call.

## Attributes

None

## API

This plugin will add `/apisix/batch-requests` as the endpoint.
You may need to use [interceptors](../plugin-interceptors.md) to protect it.

## How To Enable

Default enabled

## How To Configure

By default, the maximum body size sent to the `/apisix/batch-requests` can't be larger than 1 MiB.
You can configure it via `apisix/admin/plugin_metadata/batch-requests`:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/plugin_metadata/batch-requests -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "max_body_size": 4194304
}'
```

## Metadata

| Name             | Type    | Requirement | Default       | Valid   | Description                                                                              |
| ---------------- | ------- | ------ | ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| max_body_size       | integer  | required   |  1048576  |    > 0  | the maximum of request body size in bytes |

## Batch API Request/Response

The plugin will create a API in `apisix` to handle your batch request.

### Batch API Request:

| Name     | Type                        | Requirement | Default | Valid | Description                           |
| -------- | --------------------------- | ----------- | ------- | ----- | ------------------------------------- |
| query    | object                      | optional    |         |       | Specify `QueryString` for all request |
| headers  | object                      | optional    |         |       | Specify `Header` for all request      |
| timeout  | integer                     | optional    | 30000   |       | Aggregate API timeout in `ms`         |
| pipeline | [HttpRequest](#httprequest) | required    |         |       | Request's detail                      |

#### HttpRequest

| Name       | Type    | Requirement | Default | Valid                                                                            | Description                                                                                             |
| ---------- | ------- | ----------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| version    | string  | optional    | 1.1     | [1.0, 1.1]                                                                       | http version                                                                                            |
| method     | string  | optional    | GET     | ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS", "CONNECT", "TRACE"] | http method                                                                                             |
| query      | object  | optional    |         |                                                                                  | request's `QueryString`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `query`, this setting's value will be used. |
| headers    | object  | optional    |         |                                                                                  | request's `Header`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `headers`, this setting's value will be used.    |
| path       | string  | required    |         |                                                                                  | http request's path                                                                                     |
| body       | string  | optional    |         |                                                                                  | http request's body                                                                                     |
| ssl_verify | boolean | optional    | false   |                                                                                  | verify if SSL cert matches hostname.                                                                    |

### Batch API Response：

Response is `Array` of [HttpResponse](#httpresponse).

#### HttpResponse

| Name    | Type    | Description           |
| ------- | ------- | --------------------- |
| status  | integer | http status code      |
| reason  | string  | http reason phrase    |
| body    | string  | http response body    |
| headers | object  | http response headers |

## Test Plugin

You can pass your request detail to batch API( `/apisix/batch-requests` ), `apisix` can automatically complete requests via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining). Such as:

```shell
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/batch-requests' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "headers": {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        "admin-jwt":"xxxx"
    },
    "timeout": 500,
    "pipeline": [
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test"
        },
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test2"
        }
    ]
}'
```

response as below：

```json
[
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    },
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    }
]
```

## Disable Plugin

Normally, you don't need to disable this plugin. If you do need, please make a new list of `plugins` you need in `/conf/config.yaml` to cover the original one.

Commit message:

feat(batch-requests): allow customizing uri in batch-requests (#4563)

docs/en/latest/plugins/batch-requests.md, after:

---
title: batch-requests
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Description**](#description)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**How To Configure**](#how-to-configure)
- [**Metadata**](#metadata)
- [**Batch Api Request/Response**](#batch-api-requestresponse)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Description

`batch-requests` can accept multiple request and send them from `apisix` via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining), and return an aggregated response to client, which can significantly improve performance when the client needs to access multiple APIs.

> **Tips**
>
> The HTTP headers for the outer batch request, except for the Content- headers such as Content-Type, apply to every request in the batch. If you specify a given HTTP header in both the outer request and the individual call, the header's value of individual call would override the outer batch request header's value. The headers for an individual call apply only to that call.

## Attributes

None

## API

This plugin will add `/apisix/batch-requests` as the endpoint.
You may need to use [interceptors](../plugin-interceptors.md) to protect it.

## How To Enable

Default enabled

## How To Configure

By default, the maximum body size sent to the `/apisix/batch-requests` can't be larger than 1 MiB.
You can configure it via `apisix/admin/plugin_metadata/batch-requests`:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/plugin_metadata/batch-requests -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "max_body_size": 4194304
}'
```

## Metadata

| Name             | Type    | Requirement | Default       | Valid   | Description                                                                              |
| ---------------- | ------- | ------ | ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| max_body_size       | integer  | required   |  1048576  |    > 0  | the maximum of request body size in bytes |

## Batch API Request/Response

The plugin will create a API in `apisix` to handle your batch request.

### Batch API Request:

| Name     | Type                        | Requirement | Default | Valid | Description                           |
| -------- | --------------------------- | ----------- | ------- | ----- | ------------------------------------- |
| query    | object                      | optional    |         |       | Specify `QueryString` for all request |
| headers  | object                      | optional    |         |       | Specify `Header` for all request      |
| timeout  | integer                     | optional    | 30000   |       | Aggregate API timeout in `ms`         |
| pipeline | [HttpRequest](#httprequest) | required    |         |       | Request's detail                      |

#### HttpRequest

| Name       | Type    | Requirement | Default | Valid                                                                            | Description                                                                                             |
| ---------- | ------- | ----------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| version    | string  | optional    | 1.1     | [1.0, 1.1]                                                                       | http version                                                                                            |
| method     | string  | optional    | GET     | ["GET", "POST", "PUT", "DELETE", "PATCH", "HEAD", "OPTIONS", "CONNECT", "TRACE"] | http method                                                                                             |
| query      | object  | optional    |         |                                                                                  | request's `QueryString`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `query`, this setting's value will be used. |
| headers    | object  | optional    |         |                                                                                  | request's `Header`, if `Key` is conflicted with global `headers`, this setting's value will be used.    |
| path       | string  | required    |         |                                                                                  | http request's path                                                                                     |
| body       | string  | optional    |         |                                                                                  | http request's body                                                                                     |
| ssl_verify | boolean | optional    | false   |                                                                                  | verify if SSL cert matches hostname.                                                                    |

### Batch API Response：

Response is `Array` of [HttpResponse](#httpresponse).

#### HttpResponse

| Name    | Type    | Description           |
| ------- | ------- | --------------------- |
| status  | integer | http status code      |
| reason  | string  | http reason phrase    |
| body    | string  | http response body    |
| headers | object  | http response headers |

## How to specify custom uri

We can change the default uri in the `plugin_attr` section of `conf/config.yaml`.

| Name       | Type   | Requirement | Default                      | Description                       |
| ---------- | ------ |-------------| ---------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| uri        | string | optional    | "/apisix/batch-requests"     | uri to use with batch-requests plugin   |

Here is an example:

```yaml
plugin_attr:
  batch-requests:
    uri: "/api-gw/batch"
```

## Test Plugin

You can pass your request detail to batch API( `/apisix/batch-requests` ), `apisix` can automatically complete requests via [http pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_pipelining). Such as:

```shell
curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/batch-requests' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "headers": {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        "admin-jwt":"xxxx"
    },
    "timeout": 500,
    "pipeline": [
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test"
        },
        {
            "method": "POST",
            "path": "/community.GiftSrv/GetGifts",
            "body": "test2"
        }
    ]
}'
```

response as below：

```json
[
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    },
    {
        "status": 200,
        "reason": "OK",
        "body": "{\"ret\":500,\"msg\":\"error\",\"game_info\":null,\"gift\":[],\"to_gets\":0,\"get_all_msg\":\"\"}",
        "headers": {
            "Connection": "keep-alive",
            "Date": "Sat, 11 Apr 2020 17:53:20 GMT",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Content-Length": "81",
            "Server": "APISIX web server"
        }
    }
]
```

## Disable Plugin

Normally, you don't need to disable this plugin. If you do need, please make a new list of `plugins` you need in `/conf/config.yaml` to cover the original one.
