docs/en/latest/plugins/redirect.md, before:

---
title: redirect
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Name

URI redirect.

## Attributes

| Name          | Type    | Requirement | Default | Valid | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | ------- | ----------- | ------- | ----- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| http_to_https | boolean | optional    | false   |       | When it is set to `true` and the request is HTTP, will be automatically redirected to HTTPS with 301 response code, and the URI will keep the same as client request.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| uri           | string  | optional    |         |       | New URL which can contain Nginx variable, eg: `/test/index.html`, `$uri/index.html`. You can refer to variables in a way similar to `${xxx}` to avoid ambiguity, eg: `${uri}foo/index.html`. If you just need the original `$` character, add `\` in front of it, like this one: `/\$foo/index.html`. If you refer to a variable name that does not exist, this will not produce an error, and it will be used as an empty string. |
| regex_uri | array[string] | optional    |         |                   | Use regular expression to match URL from client, when the match is successful, the URL template will be redirected to. If the match is not successful, the URL from the client will be forwarded to the upstream. Only one of `uri` and `regex_uri` can be exist. For example: [" ^/iresty/(.*)/(.*)/(.*)", "/$1-$2-$3"], the first element represents the matching regular expression and the second element represents the URL template that is redirected to. |
| ret_code      | integer | optional    | 302     |  [200, ...]     | Response code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| encode_uri    | boolean | optional    | false   |       | When set to `true` the uri in `Location` header will be encoded  as per [RFC3986](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986) |

Only one of `http_to_https`, `uri` or `regex_uri` can be specified.

## How To Enable

Here's a mini example, enable the `redirect` plugin on the specified route:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/test/index.html",
    "plugins": {
        "redirect": {
            "uri": "/test/default.html",
            "ret_code": 301
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

And we can use any Nginx built-in variable in the new URI.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/test",
    "plugins": {
        "redirect": {
            "uri": "$uri/index.html",
            "ret_code": 301
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

## Test Plugin

Testing based on the above examples :

```shell
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/test/index.html -i
HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently
Date: Wed, 23 Oct 2019 13:48:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 166
Connection: keep-alive
Location: /test/default.html

...
```

We can check the response code and the response header `Location`.

It shows that the `redirect` plugin is in effect.

 Here is an example of redirect HTTP to HTTPS:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/hello",
    "plugins": {
        "redirect": {
            "http_to_https": true
        }
    }
}'
```

## Disable Plugin

When you want to disable the `redirect` plugin, it is very simple,
 you can delete the corresponding json configuration in the plugin configuration,
  no need to restart the service, it will take effect immediately :

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/test/index.html",
    "plugins": {},
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

The `redirect` plugin has been disabled now. It works for other plugins.

Commit message:

feat: support appending query string in redirect (#4298)

docs/en/latest/plugins/redirect.md, after:

---
title: redirect
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Name

URI redirect.

## Attributes

| Name          | Type    | Requirement | Default | Valid | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | ------- | ----------- | ------- | ----- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| http_to_https | boolean | optional    | false   |       | When it is set to `true` and the request is HTTP, will be automatically redirected to HTTPS with 301 response code, and the URI will keep the same as client request.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| uri           | string  | optional    |         |       | New URL which can contain Nginx variable, eg: `/test/index.html`, `$uri/index.html`. You can refer to variables in a way similar to `${xxx}` to avoid ambiguity, eg: `${uri}foo/index.html`. If you just need the original `$` character, add `\` in front of it, like this one: `/\$foo/index.html`. If you refer to a variable name that does not exist, this will not produce an error, and it will be used as an empty string. |
| regex_uri | array[string] | optional    |         |                   | Use regular expression to match URL from client, when the match is successful, the URL template will be redirected to. If the match is not successful, the URL from the client will be forwarded to the upstream. Only one of `uri` and `regex_uri` can be exist. For example: [" ^/iresty/(.*)/(.*)/(.*)", "/$1-$2-$3"], the first element represents the matching regular expression and the second element represents the URL template that is redirected to. |
| ret_code      | integer | optional    | 302     |  [200, ...]     | Response code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| encode_uri    | boolean | optional    | false   |       | When set to `true` the uri in `Location` header will be encoded  as per [RFC3986](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986) |
| append_query_string    | boolean | optional    | false   |       | When set to `true`, add the query string from the original request to the location header. If the configured `uri` / `regex_uri` already contains a query string, the query string from request will be appended to that after an `&`. Caution: don't use this if you've already handled the query string, e.g. with nginx variable $request_uri, to avoid duplicates. |

Only one of `http_to_https`, `uri` or `regex_uri` can be specified.

## How To Enable

Here's a mini example, enable the `redirect` plugin on the specified route:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/test/index.html",
    "plugins": {
        "redirect": {
            "uri": "/test/default.html",
            "ret_code": 301
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

And we can use any Nginx built-in variable in the new URI.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/test",
    "plugins": {
        "redirect": {
            "uri": "$uri/index.html",
            "ret_code": 301
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

## Test Plugin

Testing based on the above examples :

```shell
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/test/index.html -i
HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently
Date: Wed, 23 Oct 2019 13:48:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 166
Connection: keep-alive
Location: /test/default.html

...
```

We can check the response code and the response header `Location`.

It shows that the `redirect` plugin is in effect.

 Here is an example of redirect HTTP to HTTPS:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/hello",
    "plugins": {
        "redirect": {
            "http_to_https": true
        }
    }
}'
```

## Disable Plugin

When you want to disable the `redirect` plugin, it is very simple,
 you can delete the corresponding json configuration in the plugin configuration,
  no need to restart the service, it will take effect immediately :

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/test/index.html",
    "plugins": {},
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

The `redirect` plugin has been disabled now. It works for other plugins.
