docs/en/latest/plugins/skywalking.md, before:

---
title: skywalking
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
  - [**Run Skywalking Example**](#run-skywalking-example)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)
- [**Upstream services(Code With SpringBoot)**](#Upstream-services(Code-With-SpringBoot))

## Name

[**Skywalking**](https://github.com/apache/skywalking) is an OpenTracing plugin.\
The skywalking server can supports both http and grpc protocols. The APISIX client only support http protocols.

## Attributes

| Name         | Type   | Requirement | Default  | Valid        | Description                                                          |
| ------------ | ------ | ----------- | -------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| sample_ratio | number | required    | 1        | [0.00001, 1] | the ratio of sample                                                  |

## How To Enable

First of all, enable the skyWalking plugin in the `config.yaml`:

```
# Add this in config.yaml
plugins:
  - ... # plugin you need
  - skywalking
```

Then reload APISIX, a background timer will be created to report data to skywalking server.

Here's an example, enable the skywalking plugin on the specified route:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uris": [
        "/uid/*"
    ],
    "plugins": {
        "skywalking": {
            "sample_ratio": 1
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "10.110.149.175:8089": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

You can open dashboard with a browser:`http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/dashboard/`，to complete the above operation through the web interface, first add a route:\
![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-1.png)\
Then add skywalking plugin:\
![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-2.png)

## How to set endpoint

We can set the endpoint by specified the configuration in `conf/config.yaml`.

| Name         | Type   | Default  | Description                                                          |
| ------------ | ------ | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| service_name | string | "APISIX" | service name for skywalking reporter                                 |
|service_instance_name|string|"APISIX Instance Name" | service instance name for skywalking reporter |
| endpoint     | string | "http://127.0.0.1:12800" | the http endpoint of Skywalking, for example: http://127.0.0.1:12800 |

Here is an example:

```yaml
plugin_attr:
  skywalking:
    service_name: APISIX
    service_instance_name: "APISIX Instance Name"
    endpoint_addr: http://127.0.0.1:12800
```

## Test Plugin

### Run Skywalking Example

#### e.g.

1. Run Skywalking Server:
    - By default, use H2 storage, start skywalking directly

        ```shell
        sudo docker run --name skywalking -d -p 1234:1234 -p 11800:11800 -p 12800:12800 --restart always apache/skywalking-oap-server:8.3.0-es6
        ```

    - Of Course, you can use Elasticsearch storage

        1. Firstly, you should install Elasticsearch:

            ```shell
            sudo docker run -d --name elasticsearch -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 --restart always -e "discovery.type=single-node" elasticsearch:6.7.2
            ```

        2. You can install ElasticSearch management page: elasticsearch-hq(Optional)

            ```shell
            sudo docker run -d --name elastic-hq -p 5000:5000 --restart always elastichq/elasticsearch-hq
            ```

        3. Run skywalking server:

            ```shell
            sudo docker run --name skywalking -d -p 1234:1234 -p 11800:11800 -p 12800:12800 --restart always --link elasticsearch:elasticsearch -e SW_STORAGE=elasticsearch -e SW_STORAGE_ES_CLUSTER_NODES=elasticsearch:9200 apache/skywalking-oap-server:8.3.0-es6
            ```

2. Skywalking WebUI:
    1. Run SkyWalking webUI Server:

        ```shell
        sudo docker run --name skywalking-ui -d -p 8080:8080 --link skywalking:skywalking -e SW_OAP_ADDRESS=skywalking:12800 --restart always apache/skywalking-ui
        ```

    2. Open the webUI of  skywalking:
        You can open dashboard with a browser: http://10.110.149.175:8080. It will be a successful install as follow:
        ![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-3.png)

3. Test:

    - Access to upstream services through access apisix:

        ```bash
        $ curl -v http://10.110.149.192:9080/uid/12
        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        OK
        ...
        ```

    - Open the webUI of skyWalking:

        ```shell
        http://10.110.149.175:8080/
        ```

        You can see the topology of all service\
        ![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-4.png)\
        You can also see the tracer of all service\
        ![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-5.png)

## Disable Plugin

When you want to disable the skyWalking plugin on a route/service, it is very simple,
 you can delete the corresponding json configuration in the plugin configuration,
  no need to restart the service, it will take effect immediately:

```shell
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:2379/v2/keys/apisix/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d value='
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uris": [
        "/uid/*"
    ],
    "plugins": {
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "10.110.149.175:8089": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

The skywalking plugin has been disabled now. It works for other plugins.

If you want to disable skywalking plugin totally, for example, stop the background report timer,
you need to comment out in the `config.yaml`:

```yaml
plugins:
  - ... # plugin you need
  #- skywalking
```

And then reload APISIX.

## Upstream services(Code With SpringBoot)

```java
package com.lenovo.ai.controller;

import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.PathVariable;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;

/**
 * @author cyxinda
 * @create 2020-05-29 14:02
 * @desc skywalking test controller
 **/
@RestController
public class TestController {
    @RequestMapping("/uid/{count}")
    public String getUidList(@PathVariable("count") String countStr, HttpServletRequest request) {
        System.out.println("counter:::::-----"+countStr);
       return "OK";
    }
}
```

Configuring the skywalking agent, when starting the service.
update the file of agent/config/agent.config

```shell
agent.service_name=yourservername
collector.backend_service=10.110.149.175:11800
```

Run the script:

```shell
nohup java -javaagent:/root/skywalking/app/agent/skywalking-agent.jar \
-jar /root/skywalking/app/app.jar \
--server.port=8089 \
2>&1 > /root/skywalking/app/logs/nohup.log &
```

Commit message:

feat(skywalking):  allow destory and configure report interval for reporter (#3925)
Fix #2895

Signed-off-by: spacewander <spacewanderlzx@gmail.com>

docs/en/latest/plugins/skywalking.md, after:

---
title: skywalking
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
  - [**Run Skywalking Example**](#run-skywalking-example)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)
- [**Upstream services(Code With SpringBoot)**](#Upstream-services(Code-With-SpringBoot))

## Name

[**Skywalking**](https://github.com/apache/skywalking) is an OpenTracing plugin.\
The skywalking server can supports both http and grpc protocols. The APISIX client only support http protocols.

## Attributes

| Name         | Type   | Requirement | Default  | Valid        | Description                                                          |
| ------------ | ------ | ----------- | -------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| sample_ratio | number | required    | 1        | [0.00001, 1] | the ratio of sample                                                  |

## How To Enable

First of all, enable the skyWalking plugin in the `config.yaml`:

```
# Add this in config.yaml
plugins:
  - ... # plugin you need
  - skywalking
```

Then reload APISIX, a background timer will be created to report data to skywalking server.

Here's an example, enable the skywalking plugin on the specified route:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uris": [
        "/uid/*"
    ],
    "plugins": {
        "skywalking": {
            "sample_ratio": 1
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "10.110.149.175:8089": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

You can open dashboard with a browser:`http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/dashboard/`，to complete the above operation through the web interface, first add a route:\
![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-1.png)\
Then add skywalking plugin:\
![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-2.png)

## How to set endpoint

We can set the endpoint by specified the configuration in `conf/config.yaml`.

| Name         | Type   | Default  | Description                                                          |
| ------------ | ------ | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| service_name | string | "APISIX" | service name for skywalking reporter                                 |
|service_instance_name|string|"APISIX Instance Name" | service instance name for skywalking reporter |
| endpoint_addr| string | "http://127.0.0.1:12800" | the http endpoint of Skywalking, for example: http://127.0.0.1:12800 |
| report_interval| integer | use the value in the skywalking client library | the report interval, in seconds |

Here is an example:

```yaml
plugin_attr:
  skywalking:
    service_name: APISIX
    service_instance_name: "APISIX Instance Name"
    endpoint_addr: http://127.0.0.1:12800
```

## Test Plugin

### Run Skywalking Example

#### e.g.

1. Run Skywalking Server:
    - By default, use H2 storage, start skywalking directly

        ```shell
        sudo docker run --name skywalking -d -p 1234:1234 -p 11800:11800 -p 12800:12800 --restart always apache/skywalking-oap-server:8.3.0-es6
        ```

    - Of Course, you can use Elasticsearch storage

        1. Firstly, you should install Elasticsearch:

            ```shell
            sudo docker run -d --name elasticsearch -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 --restart always -e "discovery.type=single-node" elasticsearch:6.7.2
            ```

        2. You can install ElasticSearch management page: elasticsearch-hq(Optional)

            ```shell
            sudo docker run -d --name elastic-hq -p 5000:5000 --restart always elastichq/elasticsearch-hq
            ```

        3. Run skywalking server:

            ```shell
            sudo docker run --name skywalking -d -p 1234:1234 -p 11800:11800 -p 12800:12800 --restart always --link elasticsearch:elasticsearch -e SW_STORAGE=elasticsearch -e SW_STORAGE_ES_CLUSTER_NODES=elasticsearch:9200 apache/skywalking-oap-server:8.3.0-es6
            ```

2. Skywalking WebUI:
    1. Run SkyWalking webUI Server:

        ```shell
        sudo docker run --name skywalking-ui -d -p 8080:8080 --link skywalking:skywalking -e SW_OAP_ADDRESS=skywalking:12800 --restart always apache/skywalking-ui
        ```

    2. Open the webUI of  skywalking:
        You can open dashboard with a browser: http://10.110.149.175:8080. It will be a successful install as follow:
        ![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-3.png)

3. Test:

    - Access to upstream services through access apisix:

        ```bash
        $ curl -v http://10.110.149.192:9080/uid/12
        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        OK
        ...
        ```

    - Open the webUI of skyWalking:

        ```shell
        http://10.110.149.175:8080/
        ```

        You can see the topology of all service\
        ![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-4.png)\
        You can also see the tracer of all service\
        ![ ](../../../assets/images/plugin/skywalking-5.png)

## Disable Plugin

When you want to disable the skyWalking plugin on a route/service, it is very simple,
 you can delete the corresponding json configuration in the plugin configuration,
  no need to restart the service, it will take effect immediately:

```shell
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:2379/v2/keys/apisix/routes/1  -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d value='
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uris": [
        "/uid/*"
    ],
    "plugins": {
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "10.110.149.175:8089": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

The skywalking plugin has been disabled now. It works for other plugins.

If you want to disable skywalking plugin totally, for example, stop the background report timer,
you need to comment out in the `config.yaml`:

```yaml
plugins:
  - ... # plugin you need
  #- skywalking
```

And then reload APISIX.

## Upstream services(Code With SpringBoot)

```java
package com.lenovo.ai.controller;

import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.PathVariable;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;

/**
 * @author cyxinda
 * @create 2020-05-29 14:02
 * @desc skywalking test controller
 **/
@RestController
public class TestController {
    @RequestMapping("/uid/{count}")
    public String getUidList(@PathVariable("count") String countStr, HttpServletRequest request) {
        System.out.println("counter:::::-----"+countStr);
       return "OK";
    }
}
```

Configuring the skywalking agent, when starting the service.
update the file of agent/config/agent.config

```shell
agent.service_name=yourservername
collector.backend_service=10.110.149.175:11800
```

Run the script:

```shell
nohup java -javaagent:/root/skywalking/app/agent/skywalking-agent.jar \
-jar /root/skywalking/app/app.jar \
--server.port=8089 \
2>&1 > /root/skywalking/app/logs/nohup.log &
```
