docs/en/latest/plugins/uri-blocker.md, before:

---
title: uri-blocker
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Name

The plugin helps we intercept user requests, we only need to indicate the `block_rules`.

## Attributes

| Name          | Type          | Requirement | Default | Valid      | Description                                                                 |
| ------------- | ------------- | ----------- | ------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| block_rules   | array[string] | required    |         |            | Regular filter rule array. Each of these items is a regular rule. If the current request URI hits any one of them, set the response code to rejected_code to exit the current user request. Example: `["root.exe", "root.m+"]`. |
| rejected_code | integer       | optional    | 403     | [200, ...] | The HTTP status code returned when the request URI hit any of `block_rules`. |
| rejected_msg | string       | optional    |      | non-empty | The HTTP response body returned when the request URI hit any of `block_rules`. |

## How To Enable

Here's an example, enable the `uri blocker` plugin on the specified route:

```shell
curl -i http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/*",
    "plugins": {
        "uri-blocker": {
            "block_rules": ["root.exe", "root.m+"]
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:1980": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

## Test Plugin

```shell
$ curl -i http://127.0.0.1:9080/root.exe?a=a
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Wed, 17 Jun 2020 13:55:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 150
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX web server

... ...
```

If you set the property `rejected_msg` to `"access is not allowed"` , the response body will like below:

```shell
$ curl -i http://127.0.0.1:9080/root.exe?a=a
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Wed, 17 Jun 2020 13:55:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 150
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX web server

{"error_msg":"access is not allowed"}
```

## Disable Plugin

When you want to disable the `uri blocker` plugin, it is very simple, you can delete the corresponding json configuration in the plugin configuration, no need to restart the service, it will take effect immediately:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/*",
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:1980": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

The `uri blocker` plugin has been disabled now. It works for other plugins.

Commit message:

feat(uri-blocker): add case insensitive switch (#4868)

docs/en/latest/plugins/uri-blocker.md, after:

---
title: uri-blocker
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Name

The plugin helps we intercept user requests, we only need to indicate the `block_rules`.

## Attributes

| Name          | Type          | Requirement | Default | Valid      | Description                                                                 |
| ------------- | ------------- | ----------- | ------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| block_rules   | array[string] | required    |         |            | Regular filter rule array. Each of these items is a regular rule. If the current request URI hits any one of them, set the response code to rejected_code to exit the current user request. Example: `["root.exe", "root.m+"]`. |
| rejected_code | integer       | optional    | 403     | [200, ...] | The HTTP status code returned when the request URI hit any of `block_rules`. |
| rejected_msg | string       | optional    |      | non-empty | The HTTP response body returned when the request URI hit any of `block_rules`. |
| case_insensitive | boolean       | optional    | false     |  | Whether case insensitive or not. Set true will ignore case when matching the request URI. Default is false. |

## How To Enable

Here's an example, enable the `uri blocker` plugin on the specified route:

```shell
curl -i http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/*",
    "plugins": {
        "uri-blocker": {
            "block_rules": ["root.exe", "root.m+"]
        }
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:1980": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

## Test Plugin

```shell
$ curl -i http://127.0.0.1:9080/root.exe?a=a
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Wed, 17 Jun 2020 13:55:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 150
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX web server

... ...
```

If you set the property `rejected_msg` to `"access is not allowed"` , the response body will like below:

```shell
$ curl -i http://127.0.0.1:9080/root.exe?a=a
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Wed, 17 Jun 2020 13:55:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 150
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX web server

{"error_msg":"access is not allowed"}
```

## Disable Plugin

When you want to disable the `uri blocker` plugin, it is very simple, you can delete the corresponding json configuration in the plugin configuration, no need to restart the service, it will take effect immediately:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/*",
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "127.0.0.1:1980": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

The `uri blocker` plugin has been disabled now. It works for other plugins.
