doc/admin-api.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->


Table of contents
===

* [Route](#route)

## Route

*API*：/apisix/admin/routes/{id}?ttl=0

*Description*：Route matches requests based on preset rules, and loads the appropriate plugin according to the matching result, then forwarding requests to target Upstream.

> Request Methods：

|Method      |Request URI|Request Body|Description        |
|---------|-------------------------|--|------|
|GET      |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}|NULL|Fetch resource|
|PUT      |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}|{...}|Create resource by ID|
|POST     |/apisix/admin/routes     |{...}|Create resource, and ID is generated by server|
|DELETE   |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}|NULL|Remove resource|
|PATCH    |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}/{path}|{...}|Update targeted content|

> URI Request Parameters：

|parameter      |Required   |Type |Description        |Example|
|---------|---------|----|-----------|----|
|ttl     |False |Auxiliary   |Expires after target seconds|ttl=1|

> Request Body Parameters：

|Parameter      |Required   |Type |Description        |Example|
|---------|---------|----|-----------|----|
|desc     |False |Auxiliary   |Identifies route names, usage scenarios, and more.|customer xxxx|
|uri      |True |Match Rules|In addition to full matching such as `/foo/bar`、`/foo/gloo`, using different [Router](architecture-design-cn.md#router) allows more advanced matching, see [Router](architecture-design-cn.md#router) for more.|"/hello"|
|host     |False |Match Rules|Currently requesting a domain name, such as `foo.com`; pan-domain names such as `*.foo.com` are also supported.|"foo.com"|
|hosts    |False |Match Rules|The `host` in the form of a list means that multiple different hosts are allowed, and match any one of them.|{"foo.com", "*.bar.com"}|
|remote_addr|False |Match Rules|The client requests an IP address: `192.168.1.101`, `192.168.1.102`, and CIDR format support `192.168.1.0/24`. In particular, APISIX also fully supports IPv6 address matching: `::1`, `fe80::1`, `fe80::1/64`, etc.|"192.168.1.0/24"|
|remote_addrs|False |Match Rules|The `remote_addr` in the form of a list indicates that multiple different IP addresses are allowed, and match any one of them.|{"127.0.0.1", "192.0.0.0/8", "::1"}|
|methods  |False |Match Rules|If empty or without this option, there are no `method` restrictions, and it can be a combination of one or more: `GET`,`POST`,`PUT`,`DELETE`,`PATCH`, `HEAD`,`OPTIONS`,`CONNECT`,`TRACE`.|{"GET", "POST"}|
|vars       |False  |Match Rules (only `radixtree` route is supported)|A list of one or more `{var, operator, val}` elements, like this: `{{var, operator, val}, {var, operator, val}, ...}`. For example: `{"arg_name", "==", "json"}` means that the current request parameter `name` is `json`. The `var` here is consistent with the internal variable name of Nginx, so you can also use `request_uri`, `host`, etc. For the operator part, the currently supported operators are `==`, `~=`,`>`, `<`, and `~~`. For the `>` and `<` operators, the result is first converted to `number` and then compared. See a list of [supported operators](#available-operators) |{{"arg_name", "==", "json"}, {"arg_age", ">", 18}}|
|filter_func|False|Match Rules|User-defined filtering function. You can use it to achieve matching requirements for special scenarios. This function accepts an input parameter named `vars` by default, which you can use to get Nginx variables.|function(vars) return vars["arg_name"] == "json" end|
|plugins  |False |Plugin|See [Plugin](architecture-design-cn.md#plugin) for more ||
|upstream |False |Upstream|Enabled Upstream configuration, see [Upstream](architecture-design-cn.md#upstream) for more||
|upstream_id|False |Upstream|Enabled upstream id, see [Upstream](architecture-design-cn.md#upstream) for more ||
|service_id|False |Service|Binded Service configuration, see [Service](architecture-design-cn.md#service) for more ||
|service_protocol|False|Upstream protocol type|only `grpc` and `http` are supported|`http` is the default value; Must set `grpc` if using `gRPC proxy` or `gRPC transcode`|

For the same type of parameters, such as `host` and `hosts`, `remote_addr` and `remote_addrs` cannot exist at the same time, only one of them can be selected. If enabled at the same time, the API will response an error.

Example：

```shell
# Create a route
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -X PUT -i -d '
{
    "uri": "/index.html",
    "hosts": ["foo.com", "*.bar.com"],
    "remote_addrs": ["127.0.0.0/8"],
    "methods": ["PUT", "GET"],
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "39.97.63.215:80": 1
        }
    }
}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Date: Sat, 31 Aug 2019 01:17:15 GMT
...

# Create a route expires after 60 seconds, then it's deleted automatically
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/2?ttl=60 -X PUT -i -d '
{
    "uri": "/aa/index.html",
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "39.97.63.215:80": 1
        }
    }
}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Date: Sat, 31 Aug 2019 01:17:15 GMT
...

```

> Response Parameters

Return response from etcd currently.

### Available Operators

|Operator   |Description       |Example|
|--------|-----------|-------|
|==      |Equal      |{"arg_name", "==", "json"}|
|~=      |Not Equal    |{"arg_name", "~=", "json"}|
|>       |Greater Than     |{"arg_age", ">", 24}|
|<       |Less Than      |{"arg_age", "<", 24}|
|~~      |Regex   |{"arg_name", "~~", "[a-z]+"}|

Consider the following example: matching requests whose `request name` is equal to `json`, `age` is greater than `18`, and `address` begins with `China`:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -X PUT -i -d '
{
    "uri": "/index.html",
    "vars": [
        ["arg_name", "==", "json"],
        ["arg_age", ">", "18"],
        ["arg_address", "~~", "China.*"]
    ],
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "39.97.63.215:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

Commit message:

feature: supported `priority` for route. (#998)

doc/admin-api.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->


Table of contents
===

* [Route](#route)

## Route

*API*：/apisix/admin/routes/{id}?ttl=0

*Description*：Route matches requests based on preset rules, and loads the appropriate plugin according to the matching result, then forwarding requests to target Upstream.

> Request Methods：

|Method      |Request URI|Request Body|Description        |
|---------|-------------------------|--|------|
|GET      |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}|NULL|Fetch resource|
|PUT      |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}|{...}|Create resource by ID|
|POST     |/apisix/admin/routes     |{...}|Create resource, and ID is generated by server|
|DELETE   |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}|NULL|Remove resource|
|PATCH    |/apisix/admin/routes/{id}/{path}|{...}|Update targeted content|

> URI Request Parameters：

|parameter      |Required   |Type |Description        |Example|
|---------|---------|----|-----------|----|
|ttl     |False |Auxiliary   |Expires after target seconds|ttl=1|

> Request Body Parameters：

|Parameter      |Required   |Type |Description        |Example|
|---------|---------|----|-----------|----|
|desc     |False |Auxiliary   |Identifies route names, usage scenarios, and more.|customer xxxx|
|uri      |True |Match Rules|In addition to full matching such as `/foo/bar`、`/foo/gloo`, using different [Router](architecture-design-cn.md#router) allows more advanced matching, see [Router](architecture-design-cn.md#router) for more.|"/hello"|
|host     |False |Match Rules|Currently requesting a domain name, such as `foo.com`; pan-domain names such as `*.foo.com` are also supported.|"foo.com"|
|hosts    |False |Match Rules|The `host` in the form of a list means that multiple different hosts are allowed, and match any one of them.|{"foo.com", "*.bar.com"}|
|remote_addr|False |Match Rules|The client requests an IP address: `192.168.1.101`, `192.168.1.102`, and CIDR format support `192.168.1.0/24`. In particular, APISIX also fully supports IPv6 address matching: `::1`, `fe80::1`, `fe80::1/64`, etc.|"192.168.1.0/24"|
|remote_addrs|False |Match Rules|The `remote_addr` in the form of a list indicates that multiple different IP addresses are allowed, and match any one of them.|{"127.0.0.1", "192.0.0.0/8", "::1"}|
|methods  |False |Match Rules|If empty or without this option, there are no `method` restrictions, and it can be a combination of one or more: `GET`,`POST`,`PUT`,`DELETE`,`PATCH`, `HEAD`,`OPTIONS`,`CONNECT`,`TRACE`.|{"GET", "POST"}|
|priority  |False |Match Rules|If different routes contain the same `uri`, determine which route is matched first based on the attribute` priority`, the default value is 0.|priority = 10|
|vars       |False  |Match Rules (only `radixtree` route is supported)|A list of one or more `{var, operator, val}` elements, like this: `{{var, operator, val}, {var, operator, val}, ...}`. For example: `{"arg_name", "==", "json"}` means that the current request parameter `name` is `json`. The `var` here is consistent with the internal variable name of Nginx, so you can also use `request_uri`, `host`, etc. For the operator part, the currently supported operators are `==`, `~=`,`>`, `<`, and `~~`. For the `>` and `<` operators, the result is first converted to `number` and then compared. See a list of [supported operators](#available-operators) |{{"arg_name", "==", "json"}, {"arg_age", ">", 18}}|
|filter_func|False|Match Rules|User-defined filtering function. You can use it to achieve matching requirements for special scenarios. This function accepts an input parameter named `vars` by default, which you can use to get Nginx variables.|function(vars) return vars["arg_name"] == "json" end|
|plugins  |False |Plugin|See [Plugin](architecture-design-cn.md#plugin) for more ||
|upstream |False |Upstream|Enabled Upstream configuration, see [Upstream](architecture-design-cn.md#upstream) for more||
|upstream_id|False |Upstream|Enabled upstream id, see [Upstream](architecture-design-cn.md#upstream) for more ||
|service_id|False |Service|Binded Service configuration, see [Service](architecture-design-cn.md#service) for more ||
|service_protocol|False|Upstream protocol type|only `grpc` and `http` are supported|`http` is the default value; Must set `grpc` if using `gRPC proxy` or `gRPC transcode`|

For the same type of parameters, such as `host` and `hosts`, `remote_addr` and `remote_addrs` cannot exist at the same time, only one of them can be selected. If enabled at the same time, the API will response an error.

Example：

```shell
# Create a route
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -X PUT -i -d '
{
    "uri": "/index.html",
    "hosts": ["foo.com", "*.bar.com"],
    "remote_addrs": ["127.0.0.0/8"],
    "methods": ["PUT", "GET"],
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "39.97.63.215:80": 1
        }
    }
}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Date: Sat, 31 Aug 2019 01:17:15 GMT
...

# Create a route expires after 60 seconds, then it's deleted automatically
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/2?ttl=60 -X PUT -i -d '
{
    "uri": "/aa/index.html",
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "39.97.63.215:80": 1
        }
    }
}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Date: Sat, 31 Aug 2019 01:17:15 GMT
...

```

> Response Parameters

Return response from etcd currently.

### Available Operators

|Operator   |Description       |Example|
|--------|-----------|-------|
|==      |Equal      |{"arg_name", "==", "json"}|
|~=      |Not Equal    |{"arg_name", "~=", "json"}|
|>       |Greater Than     |{"arg_age", ">", 24}|
|<       |Less Than      |{"arg_age", "<", 24}|
|~~      |Regex   |{"arg_name", "~~", "[a-z]+"}|

Consider the following example: matching requests whose `request name` is equal to `json`, `age` is greater than `18`, and `address` begins with `China`:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/1 -X PUT -i -d '
{
    "uri": "/index.html",
    "vars": [
        ["arg_name", "==", "json"],
        ["arg_age", ">", "18"],
        ["arg_address", "~~", "China.*"]
    ],
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "39.97.63.215:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)
