doc/how-to-build.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# Build Apache APISIX

## 1. Install dependencies

The runtime environment for Apache APISIX requires Nginx and etcd.

So before installation, please follow the different operating systems [install Dependencies](install-dependencies.md).

## 2. Install Apache APISIX

You can install Apache APISIX in a variety of ways, including source code packages, Docker, and Luarocks.

### Installation via source release

You need to download the Apache source release first:

```shell
$ mkdir apisix-2.1
$ wget https://downloads.apache.org/apisix/2.1/apache-apisix-2.1-src.tgz
$ tar zxvf apache-apisix-2.1-src.tgz -C apisix-2.1
```

Install the Lua libraries that the runtime depends on:

```shell
cd apache-apisix-2.1
make deps
```

### Installation via RPM package (CentOS 7)

```shell
sudo yum install -y https://github.com/apache/apisix/releases/download/2.1/apisix-2.1-0.el7.noarch.rpm
```

### Installation via Luarocks (macOS not supported)

Execute the following command in the terminal to complete the installation of APISIX (only recommended for developers):

> Install the code for the master branch via a script

```shell
sudo sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/apisix/master/utils/install-apisix.sh)"
```

> Install the specified version via Luarocks:

```shell
# Install version 2.1
sudo luarocks install --lua-dir=/path/openresty/luajit apisix 2.1

# old luarocks not support the `lua-dir` parameter, you can remove this option
sudo luarocks install apisix 2.1
```

## 3. Manage (start/stop) APISIX Server

We can start the APISIX server by command `make run` in APISIX home folder,
or we can stop APISIX server by command `make stop`.

```shell
# init nginx config file and etcd
$ make init

# start APISIX server
$ make run

# stop APISIX server
$ make stop

# more actions find by `help`
$ make help
Makefile rules:

    help:             Show Makefile rules
    deps:             Installation dependencies
    utils:            Installation tools
    lint:             Lint Lua source code
    init:             Initialize the runtime environment
    run:              Start the apisix server
    stop:             Stop the apisix server
    verify:           Verify the configuration of apisix server
    clean:            Remove generated files
    reload:           Reload the apisix server
    install:          Install the apisix (only for luarocks)
    test:             Run the test case
    license-check:    Check Lua source code for Apache License
```

## 4. Test

1. Install perl's package manager `cpanminus` first
2. Then install `test-nginx` via `cpanm`:：`sudo cpanm --notest Test::Nginx IPC::Run > build.log 2>&1 || (cat build.log && exit 1)`
3. Clone source code：`git clone https://github.com/openresty/test-nginx.git`;
4. Load the `test-nginx` library with perl's `prove` command and run the test cases in the `/t` directory:
    * Set PERL5LIB for perl module: `export PERL5LIB=.:$PERL5LIB`
    * Run the test cases: `make test`
    * To set the path of nginx to run the test cases: `TEST_NGINX_BINARY=/usr/local/bin/openresty prove -Itest-nginx/lib -r t`

### Troubleshoot Testing

**Set Nginx Path**
- If you run in to an issue `Error unknown directive "lua_package_path" in /API_ASPIX/apisix/t/servroot/conf/nginx.conf`
make sure to set openresty as default nginx. And export the path as below.
* export PATH=/usr/local/openresty/nginx/sbin:$PATH
    - Linux default installation path:
        * export PATH=/usr/local/openresty/nginx/sbin:$PATH
    - OSx default installation path via homebrew:
        * export PATH=/usr/local/opt/openresty/nginx/sbin:$PATH

**Run Individual Test Cases**
- Use the following command to run test cases constratined to a file:
    - prove -Itest-nginx/lib -r t/plugin/openid-connect.t

## 5. Update Admin API token to protect Apache APISIX

Changes the `apisix.admin_key` in the file `conf/config.yaml` and restart the service.
Here is an example:

```yaml
apisix:
  # ... ...
  admin_key
    -
      name: "admin"
      key: abcdefghabcdefgh
      role: admin
```

When calling the Admin API, `key` can be used as a token.

```shell
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes?api_key=abcdefghabcdefgh -i
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 28 Feb 2020 07:48:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
... ...
{"node":{...},"action":"get"}

$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes?api_key=abcdefghabcdefgh-invalid -i
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Date: Fri, 28 Feb 2020 08:17:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
... ...
{"node":{...},"action":"get"}
```

Commit message:

fix: avoid unnecessary type check and support var in local_conf (#2990)
Also merge bundle of repeated code.

Signed-off-by: spacewander <spacewanderlzx@gmail.com>

doc/how-to-build.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# Build Apache APISIX

## 1. Install dependencies

The runtime environment for Apache APISIX requires Nginx and etcd.

So before installation, please follow the different operating systems [install Dependencies](install-dependencies.md).

## 2. Install Apache APISIX

You can install Apache APISIX in a variety of ways, including source code packages, Docker, and Luarocks.

### Installation via source release

You need to download the Apache source release first:

```shell
$ mkdir apisix-2.1
$ wget https://downloads.apache.org/apisix/2.1/apache-apisix-2.1-src.tgz
$ tar zxvf apache-apisix-2.1-src.tgz -C apisix-2.1
```

Install the Lua libraries that the runtime depends on:

```shell
cd apache-apisix-2.1
make deps
```

### Installation via RPM package (CentOS 7)

```shell
sudo yum install -y https://github.com/apache/apisix/releases/download/2.1/apisix-2.1-0.el7.noarch.rpm
```

### Installation via Luarocks (macOS not supported)

Execute the following command in the terminal to complete the installation of APISIX (only recommended for developers):

> Install the code for the master branch via a script

```shell
sudo sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/apisix/master/utils/install-apisix.sh)"
```

> Install the specified version via Luarocks:

```shell
# Install version 2.1
sudo luarocks install --lua-dir=/path/openresty/luajit apisix 2.1

# old luarocks not support the `lua-dir` parameter, you can remove this option
sudo luarocks install apisix 2.1
```

## 3. Manage (start/stop) APISIX Server

We can start the APISIX server by command `make run` in APISIX home folder,
or we can stop APISIX server by command `make stop`.

```shell
# init nginx config file and etcd
$ make init

# start APISIX server
$ make run

# stop APISIX server
$ make stop

# more actions find by `help`
$ make help
Makefile rules:

    help:             Show Makefile rules
    deps:             Installation dependencies
    utils:            Installation tools
    lint:             Lint Lua source code
    init:             Initialize the runtime environment
    run:              Start the apisix server
    stop:             Stop the apisix server
    verify:           Verify the configuration of apisix server
    clean:            Remove generated files
    reload:           Reload the apisix server
    install:          Install the apisix (only for luarocks)
    test:             Run the test case
    license-check:    Check Lua source code for Apache License
```

Environment variable can be used to configure APISIX. Please take a look at `conf/config.yaml` to
see how to do it.

## 4. Test

1. Install perl's package manager `cpanminus` first
2. Then install `test-nginx` via `cpanm`:：`sudo cpanm --notest Test::Nginx IPC::Run > build.log 2>&1 || (cat build.log && exit 1)`
3. Clone source code：`git clone https://github.com/openresty/test-nginx.git`;
4. Load the `test-nginx` library with perl's `prove` command and run the test cases in the `/t` directory:
    * Set PERL5LIB for perl module: `export PERL5LIB=.:$PERL5LIB`
    * Run the test cases: `make test`
    * To set the path of nginx to run the test cases: `TEST_NGINX_BINARY=/usr/local/bin/openresty prove -Itest-nginx/lib -r t`

### Troubleshoot Testing

**Set Nginx Path**
- If you run in to an issue `Error unknown directive "lua_package_path" in /API_ASPIX/apisix/t/servroot/conf/nginx.conf`
make sure to set openresty as default nginx. And export the path as below.
* export PATH=/usr/local/openresty/nginx/sbin:$PATH
    - Linux default installation path:
        * export PATH=/usr/local/openresty/nginx/sbin:$PATH
    - OSx default installation path via homebrew:
        * export PATH=/usr/local/opt/openresty/nginx/sbin:$PATH

**Run Individual Test Cases**
- Use the following command to run test cases constratined to a file:
    - prove -Itest-nginx/lib -r t/plugin/openid-connect.t

## 5. Update Admin API token to protect Apache APISIX

Changes the `apisix.admin_key` in the file `conf/config.yaml` and restart the service.
Here is an example:

```yaml
apisix:
  # ... ...
  admin_key
    -
      name: "admin"
      key: abcdefghabcdefgh
      role: admin
```

When calling the Admin API, `key` can be used as a token.

```shell
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes?api_key=abcdefghabcdefgh -i
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 28 Feb 2020 07:48:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
... ...
{"node":{...},"action":"get"}

$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes?api_key=abcdefghabcdefgh-invalid -i
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Date: Fri, 28 Feb 2020 08:17:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
... ...
{"node":{...},"action":"get"}
```
