doc/install-dependencies.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# Install Dependencies

- [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
- [Note](#note)
- [CentOS 7](#centos-7)
- [Fedora 31 & 32](#fedora-31--32)
- [Ubuntu 16.04 & 18.04](#ubuntu-1604--1804)
- [Debian 9 & 10](#debian-9--10)
- [Mac OSX](#mac-osx)

# Note

- Since v2.0 Apache APISIX would not support the v2 protocol storage to etcd anymore, and the minimum etcd version supported is v3.4.0. What's more, etcd v3 uses gRPC as the messaging protocol, while Apache APISIX uses HTTP(S) to communicate with etcd cluster, so be sure the [etcd gRPC gateway](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.4.0/dev-guide/api_grpc_gateway/) is enabled.

- Now by default Apache APISIX uses HTTP protocol to talk with etcd cluster, which is insecure. Please configure certificate and corresponding private key for your etcd cluster, and use "https" scheme explicitly in the etcd endpoints list in your Apache APISIX configuration, if you want to keep the data secure and integral. See the etcd section in `conf/config-default.yaml` for more details.

- If you want use Tengine instead of OpenResty, please take a look at this installation step script [Install Tengine at Ubuntu](../.travis/linux_tengine_runner.sh).

# CentOS 7

```shell
# install epel, `luarocks` need it.
wget http://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm
sudo rpm -ivh epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# add OpenResty source
sudo yum install yum-utils
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://openresty.org/package/centos/openresty.repo

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo yum install -y openresty curl git gcc luarocks lua-devel

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Fedora 31 & 32

```shell
# add OpenResty source
sudo yum install yum-utils
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://openresty.org/package/fedora/openresty.repo

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo yum install -y openresty curl git gcc luarocks lua-devel

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Ubuntu 16.04 & 18.04

```shell
# add OpenResty source
wget -qO - https://openresty.org/package/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository -y "deb http://openresty.org/package/ubuntu $(lsb_release -sc) main"
sudo apt-get update

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo apt-get install -y git openresty curl luarocks

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Debian 9 & 10

```shell
# optional
sed -i 's|^deb http://deb.debian.org/debian|deb http://mirrors.huaweicloud.com/debian|g' /etc/apt/sources.list
sed -i 's|^deb http://security.debian.org/debian-security|deb http://mirrors.huaweicloud.com/debian-security|g' /etc/apt/sources.list
apt update
apt install wget gnupg -y

# add OpenResty source
wget -qO - https://openresty.org/package/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get -y install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository -y "deb http://openresty.org/package/debian $(lsb_release -sc) openresty"
sudo apt-get update

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo apt-get install -y git openresty curl luarocks make

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Mac OSX

```shell
# install OpenResty, etcd and some compilation tools
brew install openresty/brew/openresty etcd luarocks curl git

# start etcd server
etcd &

# enable TLS for etcd server
etcd --cert-file=/path/to/cert --key-file=/path/to/pkey --advertise-client-urls https://127.0.0.1:2379
```

Commit message:

fix: use luajit by default when run apisix (#3335)
Fix : #3281

doc/install-dependencies.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# Install Dependencies

- [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
- [Note](#note)
- [CentOS 7](#centos-7)
- [Fedora 31 & 32](#fedora-31--32)
- [Ubuntu 16.04 & 18.04](#ubuntu-1604--1804)
- [Debian 9 & 10](#debian-9--10)
- [Mac OSX](#mac-osx)

# Note

- Since v2.0 Apache APISIX would not support the v2 protocol storage to etcd anymore, and the minimum etcd version supported is v3.4.0. What's more, etcd v3 uses gRPC as the messaging protocol, while Apache APISIX uses HTTP(S) to communicate with etcd cluster, so be sure the [etcd gRPC gateway](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.4.0/dev-guide/api_grpc_gateway/) is enabled.

- Now by default Apache APISIX uses HTTP protocol to talk with etcd cluster, which is insecure. Please configure certificate and corresponding private key for your etcd cluster, and use "https" scheme explicitly in the etcd endpoints list in your Apache APISIX configuration, if you want to keep the data secure and integral. See the etcd section in `conf/config-default.yaml` for more details.

- If you want use Tengine instead of OpenResty, please take a look at this installation step script [Install Tengine at Ubuntu](../.travis/linux_tengine_runner.sh).

- By default Apache APISIX runs with LuaJIT of OpenResty 1.19 (priority) or Lua 5.1. If you run in to an issue `luajit: lj_asm_x86.h:2819: asm_loop_fixup: Assertion '((intptr_t)target & 15) == 0' failed`, it is caused by to the compatibility of OpenResty version. OpenResty 1.19 is recommended, please take a look at this installation step script [linux-install-openresty](../utils/linux-install-openresty.sh).

# CentOS 7

```shell
# install epel, `luarocks` need it.
wget http://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm
sudo rpm -ivh epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# add OpenResty source
sudo yum install yum-utils
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://openresty.org/package/centos/openresty.repo

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo yum install -y openresty curl git gcc luarocks lua-devel

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Fedora 31 & 32

```shell
# add OpenResty source
sudo yum install yum-utils
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://openresty.org/package/fedora/openresty.repo

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo yum install -y openresty curl git gcc luarocks lua-devel

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Ubuntu 16.04 & 18.04

```shell
# add OpenResty source
wget -qO - https://openresty.org/package/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository -y "deb http://openresty.org/package/ubuntu $(lsb_release -sc) main"
sudo apt-get update

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo apt-get install -y git openresty curl luarocks

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Debian 9 & 10

```shell
# optional
sed -i 's|^deb http://deb.debian.org/debian|deb http://mirrors.huaweicloud.com/debian|g' /etc/apt/sources.list
sed -i 's|^deb http://security.debian.org/debian-security|deb http://mirrors.huaweicloud.com/debian-security|g' /etc/apt/sources.list
apt update
apt install wget gnupg -y

# add OpenResty source
wget -qO - https://openresty.org/package/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get -y install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository -y "deb http://openresty.org/package/debian $(lsb_release -sc) openresty"
sudo apt-get update

# install etcd
wget https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.4.13/etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64.tar.gz && \
    cd etcd-v3.4.13-linux-amd64 && \
    sudo cp -a etcd etcdctl /usr/bin/

# install OpenResty and some compilation tools
sudo apt-get install -y git openresty curl luarocks make

# start etcd server
nohup etcd &
```

# Mac OSX

```shell
# install OpenResty, etcd and some compilation tools
brew install openresty/brew/openresty etcd luarocks curl git

# start etcd server
etcd &

# enable TLS for etcd server
etcd --cert-file=/path/to/cert --key-file=/path/to/pkey --advertise-client-urls https://127.0.0.1:2379
```
