doc/plugins.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

[Chinese](zh-cn/plugins.md)

## Hot reload

APISIX plug-ins are hot-loaded. No matter you add, delete or modify plug-ins, you don't need to restart the service.

If your APISIX node has the Admin API turned on, just send an HTTP request through admin API:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/plugins/reload -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT
```

### Hot reload in stand-alone mode

For stand-alone mode, see plugin related section in [stand alone mode](stand-alone.md).

Commit message:

docs: clarify how we handle disabled plugin which is matched (#2706)

doc/plugins.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

[Chinese](zh-cn/plugins.md)

## Hot reload

APISIX plugins are hot-loaded. No matter you add, delete or modify plugins, you don't need to restart the service.

If your APISIX node has the Admin API turned on, just send an HTTP request through admin API:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/plugins/reload -H 'X-API-KEY: edd1c9f034335f136f87ad84b625c8f1' -X PUT
```

Note: if you disable a plugin which has been configured as part of your rule (in the `plugins` field of `route`, etc.),
the its execution will be skipped.

### Hot reload in stand-alone mode

For stand-alone mode, see plugin related section in [stand alone mode](stand-alone.md).
