kubernetes/README.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

### Kubernetes

There are some yaml files for deploying apisix in Kubernetes.

### Prerequisites

- use `etcd`, if there is no `etcd` service, please install and set etcd address in `../conf/config.yaml`

### Usage

#### Create configmap for apache apisix

if you do not need to change any config, and use default config in `../conf/config.yaml`

```
$ kubectl create configmap apisix-gw-config.yaml --from-file=../conf/config.yaml
```

#### When using etcd-operator

when using etcd-operator, you need to change `apisix-gw-config-cm.yaml`:

* add CoreDNS IP into dns_resolver

```
dns_resolver:
  - 10.233.0.3      # default coreDNS cluster ip

```

* change etcd host

Following {your-namespace} should be changed to your namespace, for example `default`.
> Mention: must use `Full Qualified Domain Name`. Short name `etcd-cluster-client` is not work.

```
etcd:
  host:
    - "http://etcd-cluster-client.{your-namespace}.svc.cluster.local:2379"     # multiple etcd address
```

#### Create deployment for apache apisix

```
$ kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
```

#### Create service for apache apisix

```
$ kubectl apply -f service.yaml
```

#### Scale apache apisix

```
$ kubectl scale deployment apisix-gw-deployment --replicas=4
```

#### Check running status

```
$ kubectl get cm | grep -i apisix
apisix-gw-config.yaml                             1      1d

$ kubectl get pod | grep -i apisix
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-5pvxb   1/1     Running   0          1d
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-kn89l   1/1     Running   0          1d
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-i830r   1/1     Running   0          1d
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-32ow1   1/1     Running   0          1d

$ kubectl get svc | grep -i apisix
apisix-gw-svc            LoadBalancer   172.19.33.28    10.253.0.11   80:31141/TCP,443:30931/TCP                  1d

```

#### Clean up (dangerous)

```
kubectl delete -f .
```

Commit message:

docs: add the helm chart link in the k8s deployment apisix doc (#4303)

kubernetes/README.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

### Kubernetes

There are some yaml files for deploying apisix in Kubernetes.

**Note: You can also install Apache APISIX in Kubernetes by [Helm Chart](https://github.com/apache/apisix-helm-chart).**

### Prerequisites

- use `etcd`, if there is no `etcd` service, please install and set etcd address in `../conf/config.yaml`

### Usage

#### Create configmap for apache apisix

if you do not need to change any config, and use default config in `../conf/config.yaml`

```
$ kubectl create configmap apisix-gw-config.yaml --from-file=../conf/config.yaml
```

#### When using etcd-operator

when using etcd-operator, you need to change `apisix-gw-config-cm.yaml`:

* add CoreDNS IP into dns_resolver

```
dns_resolver:
  - 10.233.0.3      # default coreDNS cluster ip

```

* change etcd host

Following {your-namespace} should be changed to your namespace, for example `default`.
> Mention: must use `Full Qualified Domain Name`. Short name `etcd-cluster-client` is not work.

```
etcd:
  host:
    - "http://etcd-cluster-client.{your-namespace}.svc.cluster.local:2379"     # multiple etcd address
```

#### Create deployment for apache apisix

```
$ kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
```

#### Create service for apache apisix

```
$ kubectl apply -f service.yaml
```

#### Scale apache apisix

```
$ kubectl scale deployment apisix-gw-deployment --replicas=4
```

#### Check running status

```
$ kubectl get cm | grep -i apisix
apisix-gw-config.yaml                             1      1d

$ kubectl get pod | grep -i apisix
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-5pvxb   1/1     Running   0          1d
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-kn89l   1/1     Running   0          1d
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-i830r   1/1     Running   0          1d
apisix-gw-deployment-68df7c7578-32ow1   1/1     Running   0          1d

$ kubectl get svc | grep -i apisix
apisix-gw-svc            LoadBalancer   172.19.33.28    10.253.0.11   80:31141/TCP,443:30931/TCP                  1d

```

#### Clean up (dangerous)

```
kubectl delete -f .
```
